#11 Maya v1.0.0 Skin docs (#25)
Inbibo/adonisfx_docs: docs/documentation/maya/skin.md

# Introduction to Skin in Maya

> Skin is a Maya deformer for fast, robust and easy-to-configure skin simulation for digital assets. Thanks to the combination of internal and external constraints, the deformer can produce dynamics that allow the skin mesh to realistically react to the deformations of the internal tissues (e.g. muscles, fascia) over time.

Reviewer: Done.

<!-- DEV NOTE: change paint tool references once tools.md has been merged-->

The influence these constraints have in the simulated mesh can be freely modified by painting them via the [AdonisFX Paint Tool](index.md) or by uniformingly regulating their influence via multipliers in the attribute editor. Beyond these constraints, there are many paramenters to regulate the skin's dynamics are available to modify the deformer's behaviour to a wide array of options.

# How to Use

The Adonis Skin deformer is of great simplicity so set up and apply to a mesh within a Maya scene. The way this deformer works, a reference mesh (usually animated) is set in the scene, over which the skin mesh (simulated mesh) is set with the deformer.

## Requirements

To create a Skin deformer within a Maya scene, the following inputs must be provided:

>   - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R) </b> to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).

Author: Yes! The only I wouldn't do is capitalize "mesh" after the ":"

>   - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R) </b> to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).

Author: Also, I would leave the ":" outside of the bold characters, so something like this.
```suggestion
  - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R) </b>: mesh to drive the skin simulation (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).
```

>   - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R) </b> to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).

Reviewer: Done.

  - <b class="mesh_color"> Skin Mesh (S) </b> which will be the simulated mesh to which the skin deformer will be applied.

## Create Skin

The process to create a Skin deformer must follow this procedure:

> 1. Select the attachments (if any), then the geometry:

Author: My bad! It should be the reference mesh instead of attachments.

> 1. Select the attachments (if any), then the geometry:

Reviewer: Fixed.

> 2. Press ![Skin button](images/adn_skin.png) in the AdonisFX shelf or Skin in the AdonisFX menu, under the "Create" section.

Author: They should be, but the styling of the pages is handled by the company working on the web page. The current style is just a placeholder preset, without directly addressing the styling.

>     - If the shelf button is double-clicked or the option box in the menu is selected a window will be displayed were a custom name and initial attribute values can be set.

Reviewer: Done.

3. Skin is ready to simulate with default settings. Check [this page](#attributes) to customize the configuration.

## Paintable Weights

In order to provide more artistic control, some key parameters of the skin solver are exposed as paintable attributes in the deformer. The [AdonisFX Paint Tool](index.md) must be used to paint those parameters to ensure that the values satisfy the solver requirements.

> - <b class="paintable maps">Hard constrain maps</b>: weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant transformation, local to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Hard constrains maps will force the geometry points to keep the original position. You may want to have a low value of hard constraints to allow the skin to create wrinkles, slide, etc.

Author: This is something I have doubts as well, I will ask @carlosmonteagudoinbibo, but I agree that we should maybe change it to first person plural or impersonal.

    - *Tip*: flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2. Give a value of 1.0 to the edges of the skin to guarantee that’s perfectly attached to the target geometry

>     - *Tip*: smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles. (unless that’s something you are looking for!)

Author: Yes! Makes a lot of sense

>     - *Tip*: smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles. (unless that’s something you are looking for!)

Reviewer: Applied.

- <b class="paintable maps">Soft Constraints</b>: weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. An intermediate value of 0.5 on the whole geometry is recommended.

    - *Tip*: flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2.

    - *Tip*: you may want to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as you see the results of the skin simulation. 

- <b class="paintable maps">Slide Constraints</b>: weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the reference mesh sliding along the reference surface. In the example of a biped or quadruped, it is recommended to set a value of 1.0 on the scapulas, shoulders, elbows and knees and an overall value of 0 on the rest of the body.

>     - *Tip*: smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles. (unless that’s something you are looking for!)

Reviewer: Done.

- <b class="paintable maps">Compression Resistance</b>: force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is smaller than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction. At value 1 the points in the geometry will try to keep as close as possible to their original position.

>     - *Tip*: you may want to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as you see the results of the skin simulation. 

Reviewer: Applied.

    
    - *Tip*: Reducing the value of the weight in some areas will contribute to getting rid of unwanted wrinkles or possible artifacts in the skin.

- <b class="paintable maps">Stretching Resistance</b>: force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is greater than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction.

>     - *Tip*: you may want to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as you see the results of the skin simulation. 

Reviewer: Applied.

>     - *Tip*: smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles. (unless that’s something you are looking for!)

Reviewer: Done.

- <b class="paintable maps">Global Damping </b>: set global damping per vertex in the simulated mesh. The greater the value per vertex the more it will attempt to retain its previous position.

- <b class="paintable maps">Max Sliding Multiplier</b>: determines the size of the sliding area per vertex. It corresponds to the maximum distance to the closest point on the reference mesh computed on initialization. Greater values will allow for greater sliding but will have a greater computational cost.
    

>     - *Tip*: for areas where sliding isn't required paint to 0. use values closer to 1 in areas where you want to allow more freedom to slide.

Reviewer: Done.

 - **Start Time** (Time, *Current frame*): Determines the frame at which the simulation starts.
 - **Current Time** (Time, *Current frame*): Current playback frame.

#### Scale Attributes
 - **Time Scale** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the simulation time step.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Space Scale** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the masses and/or the forces.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Space Scale Mode** (Enumerator, "Masses + Forces"): Determines if the spatial scaling affects the masses, the forces, or both.
    - The available options are: Masses, Forces, Masses + Forces.

#### Gravity
 - **Gravity** (Float, 1.0): Sets the magnitude of the gravity acceleration.
 - **Gravity Direction** (Float3, {0.0. -1.0, 0.0} ): Sets the direction of the gravity acceleration.
    - Vectors introduced don't need to be normalized, but they will get normalized internally.

### Advanced Settings

#### Stiffness Settings
 - **Use Custom Stiffness** (Boolean, False): Toggles the use of a custom stiffness value. If enabled, the Material is ignored and the Stiffness parameter is used instead.

>     - If we use a custom stiffness, **Material** and **Stiffness Multiplier** will be disabled and **Stiffness** will be used instead.

Author: Yes! It should be removed, thank you for noticing.

>     - If we use a custom stiffness, **Material** and **Stiffness Multiplier** will be disabled and **Stiffness** will be used instead.

Reviewer: Removed.

 - **Stiffness** (Float, 10^5^): Sets the custom stiffness value.
    - Its value must be greater than 0.0.

#### Dynamic Properties
 - **Global Mass Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the mass of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\] [^1]
 - **Global Damping** (Float, 0.75): Sets the scaling factor applied to the global damping of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 1.0\] [^1]
 - **Inertia Damper** (Float, 0.0): Sets the linear damping applied to the dynamics of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 1.0\] [^1]
 - **Rest Length Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the edge lengths at rest.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]

>  - **Max Sliding Distance** (Float, 0.5): Determines the size of the sliding area. It corresponds to themaximum distance to the closest point on the reference mesh computed on initialization.

Reviewer: Applied.

    - The higher this value is, the higher quality and the lower performance.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\] [^1]
 - **Compression Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the compression resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Stretching Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the stretching resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]

>  - **Attenuation Velocity factor** (Float, 1.0): Sets the weight of the attenuation applied to the whole simulation driven by the Attenuation Matrix.

Author: The attenuation matrix itself isn't exposed as an attribute in the Attribute Editor, but it is true that it should be exposed in the documentation, as an **Additional Attribute**

>  - **Attenuation Velocity factor** (Float, 1.0): Sets the weight of the attenuation applied to the whole simulation driven by the Attenuation Matrix.

Reviewer 2: Leaving this comment open and would like @carlosmonteagudoinbibo to intervene or any other developer with a suggestion

>  - **Attenuation Velocity factor** (Float, 1.0): Sets the weight of the attenuation applied to the whole simulation driven by the Attenuation Matrix.

Reviewer: Finally the Attenuation Matrix has been added as a connectable attribute.

3. AdnSkin is ready to simulate with default settings. Check [this section](#attributes) to customize the configuration.

## Paintable Weights

In order to provide more artistic control, some key parameters of the AdnSkin solver are exposed as paintable attributes in the deformer. The [AdonisFX Paint Tool](tools.md#adonisfx-paint-tool) must be used to paint those parameters to ensure that the values satisfy the solver requirements.

- **Hard Constraints**: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant transformation, local to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Hard Constraint maps will force the geometry points to keep the original position. A low value of *Hard Constraints* may be desired to allow the skin to create wrinkles and sliding effect.

    - *Tip*: Flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2. Give a value of 1.0 to the edges of the skin to guarantee that is properly attached to the target geometry.

>     - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth and Flood combination to make sure the simulation does not find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that is something you are looking for!).

Reviewer 3: We agreed to remove expressions like "odd". Something like this: (please, review the whole document)
```suggestion
    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth and Flood combination to make sure that there are no discontinuities in the weights map. This will help the simulation to not produce sharp differences in the dynamics of every vertex compared to its neighbors vertices (unless that is something you are looking for!).
```

Author: Applied this change! Also reviewed the whole document to avoid subjective expressions.

Reviewer 3: I think we should say: "neighboring vertices" or "connected vertices".

    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth and Flood combination to make sure the simulation does not find hard edges as this could create undesired wrinkles.

- **Compression Resistance**: Force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is smaller than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction. At value 1 the points in the geometry will try to stay as close as possible to their original position.

    - *Tip*: To optimize the painting of the weight, flood it to 1.0 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as the results of the skin simulation are seen.
    
    - *Tip*: Reducing the value of the weight in some areas will contribute to getting rid of unwanted wrinkles or possible artifacts in the skin.

- **Stretching Resistance**: Force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is greater than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction.

    - *Tip*: To optimize the painting of the weight, flood it to 1.0 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as the results of the skin simulation are seen.

>     - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth and Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create undesired wrinkles.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth and Flood combination to make sure the simulation does not find hard edges as this could create undesired wrinkles.
```

Author: Applied!

> # Introduction to AdnSkin in Maya

Reviewer: Done.

AdnSkin is a Maya deformer for fast, robust and easy-to-configure skin simulation for digital assets. Thanks to the combination of internal and external constraints, the deformer can produce dynamics that allow the skin mesh to realistically react to the deformations of the internal tissues (e.g. muscles, fascia) over time.

<!-- DEV NOTE: change paint tool references once tools.md has been merged-->

The influence these constraints have in the simulated mesh can be freely modified by painting them via the [AdonisFX Paint Tool](index.md) or by uniformingly regulating their influence via multipliers in the attribute editor. Beyond these constraints, there are many paramenters to regulate the skin's dynamics are available to modify the deformer's behaviour to a wide array of options.

# How to Use

> The Adonis Skin deformer is of great simplicity so set up and apply to a mesh within a Maya scene. The way this deformer works, a reference mesh (usually animated) is set in the scene, over which the skin mesh (simulated mesh) is set with the deformer.

Reviewer: Done.

## Requirements

To create an AdnSkin deformer within a Maya scene, the following inputs must be provided:

  - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R)</b>: Mesh to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).
  - <b class="mesh_color"> Skin Mesh (S)</b>: Mesh to be simulated to which the AdnSkin deformer will be applied.

## Create AdnSkin

> The process to create an AdnSkin deformer must follow this procedure:

Reviewer: Done.

1. Select the reference mesh (if any), then the geometry:

> 2. Press ![Skin button](images/adn_skin.png) in the AdonisFX shelf or Skin in the AdonisFX menu, under the "Create" section.

Reviewer: Done.

>     - If the shelf button is double-clicked or the option box in the menu is selected a window will be displayed where a custom name and initial attribute values can be set.

Reviewer: Done.

> 3. AdnSkin is ready to simulate with default settings. Check [this page](#attributes) to customize the configuration.

Reviewer: Done.

## Paintable Weights

In order to provide more artistic control, some key parameters of the AdnSkin solver are exposed as paintable attributes in the deformer. The [AdonisFX Paint Tool](index.md) must be used to paint those parameters to ensure that the values satisfy the solver requirements.

- <b class="paintable maps">Hard Constraints</b>: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant transformation, local to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Hard constraint maps will force the geometry points to keep the original position. A low value of hard constraints may be desired to allow the skin to create wrinkles, sliding, etc.

    - *Tip*: Flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2. Give a value of 1.0 to the edges of the skin to guarantee that’s perfectly attached to the target geometry

    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that’s something you are looking for!).

> - <b class="paintable maps">Soft Constraints</b>: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. An intermediate value of 0.5 on the whole geometry is recommended.

Reviewer: Added.

    - *Tip*: Flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2.

    - *Tip*: It may be desirable to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as the results of the skin simulation are seen.

- <b class="paintable maps">Slide Constraints</b>: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the reference mesh sliding along the reference surface. In the example of a biped or quadruped, it is recommended to set a value of 1.0 on the scapulas, shoulders, elbows and knees and an overall value of 0 on the rest of the body.

    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that’s something you are looking for!).

> - <b class="paintable maps">Compression Resistance</b>: Force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is smaller than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction. At value 1 the points in the geometry will try to keep as close as possible to their original position.

Reviewer: Done.

    - *Tip*: It may be desirable to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as the results of the skin simulation are seen.
    
    - *Tip*: Reducing the value of the weight in some areas will contribute to getting rid of unwanted wrinkles or possible artifacts in the skin.

- <b class="paintable maps">Stretching Resistance</b>: Force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is greater than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction.

    - *Tip*: It may be desirable to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as the results of the skin simulation are seen.

    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that’s something you are looking for!).

> - <b class="paintable maps">Global Damping </b>: Set global damping per vertex in the simulated mesh. The greater the value per vertex the more it will attempt to retain its previous position.

Reviewer 2: We have discussed that we will be adding it for V1. I've added it to the MoSCoW sheet pending creation of the issue

- <b class="paintable maps">Max Sliding Multiplier</b>: Determines the size of the sliding area per vertex. It corresponds to the maximum distance to the closest point on the reference mesh computed on initialization. Greater values will allow for greater sliding but will have a greater computational cost.
    
    - *Tip*: For areas where sliding isn't required paint to 0. Use values closer to 1 in areas where more sliding freedom is desired.

- <b class="paintable maps">Mass</b>: Set individual mass values per vertex in the simulated mesh.

<figure>
  <img src="images/skin_paint_example.png" caption="AdonisFX Paint Tool"> 

>   <figcaption>Figure 1: Example of painted weights on the skin of a bear character. From left to right: Hard Constraints, Slide Constraints and Soft Constraints.</figcaption>

Reviewer: I agree, although I'm not sure if this is something that will be addressed by DeF studio.

</figure>

> [!NOTE]
> - *Hard*, *Soft* and *Slide* values are normalized for each vertex. Make sure to paint the values that you want to give priority to at the end in order to avoid the internal normalization override them in further strokes.

> 

Reviewer: I really don't know why the notes are displayed like that, maybe @enriquemeseguerinbibo knows why that happens.

> 

Author: Yes! This is something we shouldn't worry about, as it is a problem of the style theme we are using for previsualization. When used with the styling DeF Studio is preparing the notes will get displayed properly. This is something they specifically asked for, as seen in this PR.
https://github.com/Inbibo/adonisfx_docs/pull/20

    <ul><li>Fat: 10^7^</li><li>Muscle: 5e^3^</li><li>Rubber: 10^6^</li><li>Tendon: 5e^7^</li><li>Leather: 10^8^</li><li>Wood: 6e^9^</li><li>Concrete: 2.5e^10^</li></ul>
 - **Stiffness Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Multiplier factor to scale up or down the material stiffness.
     - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\]

#### Time Attributes
 - **Preroll Start Time** (Time, *Current frame*): Sets the frame at which the preroll begins. The preroll ends at *Start Time*.
 - **Start Time** (Time, *Current frame*): Determines the frame at which the simulation starts.
 - **Current Time** (Time, *Current frame*): Current playback frame.

#### Scale Attributes
 - **Time Scale** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the simulation time step.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Space Scale** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the masses and/or the forces.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Space Scale Mode** (Enumerator, "Masses + Forces"): Determines if the spatial scaling affects the masses, the forces, or both.

>     - The available options are: Masses, Forces, Masses + Forces.

Reviewer: Done.

    - The higher this value is, the higher quality and the lower performance.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\] [^1]
 - **Compression Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the compression resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Stretching Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the stretching resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Attenuation Velocity Factor** (Float, 1.0): Sets the weight of the attenuation applied to the whole simulation driven by the Attenuation Matrix.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\] [^1]
 - **Space Scale Mode** (Enumerator, "Masses + Forces"): Defines the mode of execution for the sliding constraints.
    - *Quality* is more accurate, recommended for final results.
    - *Fast* provides higher performance, recommended for preview.

<!-- Removed additional attributes as they were basically paintable weights, previously explained  -->

## Attribute Editor Template

<figure markdown>
  ![skin editor first part](images/attribute_editor_part_one_skin.png) 

>   <figcaption>Figure 1: AdnSkin Attribute Editor</figcaption>

Reviewer: Done.

</figure>

<figure markdown>
  ![skin editor second part](images/attribute_editor_part_two_skin.png)
  <figcaption>Figure 3: AdnSkin Attribute Editor (Advanced Settings)</figcaption>
</figure>

## Debugger

> To better visualize deformer constraints and attributes in the Maya viewport there is the option to enable the debugger, found in the dropdown menu labeled "Debug" in the attribute editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To better visualize deformer constraints and attributes in the Maya viewport there is the option to enable the debugger, found in the dropdown menu labeled *Debug* in the attribute editor.
```

Reviewer: Done.

To enable the debugger the *Debug* checkbox must be marked. To select the specific feature you would like to visualize, choose it from the list provided in *Features*. 

### Debug features

The features that can be visualized with the debugger in the AdnSkin deformer are:

 - **Hard Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Hard Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.
 - **Soft Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Soft Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.
 - **Slide Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Soft Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.

Enabling the debugger and selecting one of these constraints will draw lines from the influenced vertices in the simulated mesh to their corresponding reference vertices. 

<figure markdown>
  ![skin editor debug menu](images/skin_debug.png)

>   <figcaption>Figure 5: Debugger enabled displaying hard constraints, slide constraints and soft constraints with different configurations. </figcaption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>Figure 4: Debugger enabled displaying hard constraints, slide constraints and soft constraints with different configurations. </figcaption>
```

Reviewer: Done.

</figure>

### Debugger attributes

The following attributes can be modified to better customize the appereance of these lines:

>  - **Width Scale** (Float, 3.0): Modifies the width of all lines.

Reviewer 2: Please also add `Debug` and `Feature` to the list of attributes

Reviewer: Could you take care of this specific change? I don't know exactly how to define those attributes.

Reviewer 2: Let me write it here (It's hard to format here so please make sure that everything is tabulated correctly:
```suggestion
 - **Debug** (Boolean, False): Enable or Disable the debug functionalities in the viewport for the AdnSkin deformer.
 - **Feature** (Enum, "Hard Constraints"): A list of debuggable features for this deformer.
     - Hard Constraints: Draw hard constraints connections from the simulated mesh to the reference mesh.
     - Soft Constraints: Draw soft constraints connections from the simulated mesh to the reference mesh.
     - Slide Constraints: Draw slide constraints connections from the simulated mesh to the reference mesh.
 - **Width Scale** (Float, 3.0): Modifies the width of all lines.
```

 - **Color** (Color picker): Selects the line color from a color wheel. Its saturation can be modified using the slider.

<figure markdown>
  ![skin editor debug menu](images/attribute_editor_skin_debug.png)

>   <figcaption>Figure 4: AdnSkin Attribute Editor (Debug menu)</figcaption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>Figure 5: AdnSkin Attribute Editor (Debug menu)</figcaption>
```

# AdnSkin

AdnSkin is a Maya deformer for fast, robust and easy-to-configure skin simulation for digital assets. Thanks to the combination of internal and external constraints, the deformer can produce dynamics that allow the skin mesh to realistically react to the deformations of internal tissues (e.g. muscles, fascia) over time.

> The influence these constraints have on the simulated mesh can be freely modified by painting them via the [AdonisFX Paint Tool](tools.md#adonisfx-paint-tool) or by uniformingly regulating their influence via multipliers in the attribute editor. Besides the maps and multipliers there are many other parameters to regulate the skin's dynamics and behaviour to a wide array of options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The influence these constraints have on the simulated mesh can be freely modified by painting them via the [AdonisFX Paint Tool](tools.md#adonisfx-paint-tool) or by uniformly regulating their influence via multipliers in the Attribute Editor. Besides the maps and multipliers there are many other parameters to regulate the skin's dynamics and behaviour to a wide array of options.
```

Author: Done!

# How to Use

> The AdnSkin deformer is of great simplicity so set up and apply to a mesh within a Maya scene. The way this deformer works, a reference mesh (usually animated) is set in the scene, over which the skin mesh (simulated mesh) is applied with the deformer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AdnSkin deformer is of great simplicity to set up and apply to a mesh within a Maya scene. The way this deformer works, a reference mesh (with deformation over time) is set in the scene, over which the skin mesh (simulated mesh) is applied with the deformer.
```

## Requirements

To create an AdnSkin deformer within a Maya scene, the following inputs must be provided:

  - **Reference Mesh (R)**: Mesh to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).
  - **Skin Mesh (S)**: Mesh to apply the deformer onto.

## Create AdnSkin

The process to create an AdnSkin deformer is the following:

> 1. Select the reference mesh, then the geometry to simulate:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Select the reference mesh, then the geometry to simulate.
```

Author: Done!

2. Press ![Skin button](images/adn_skin.png) in the AdonisFX shelf or *Skin* in the AdonisFX menu, under the *Create* section. If the shelf button is double-clicked or the option box in the menu is selected a window will be displayed where a custom name and initial attribute values can be set.

> 3. AdnSkin is ready to simulate with default settings. Check the [attributes page](#attributes) to customize the configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. AdnSkin is ready to simulate with default settings. Check [this section](#attributes) to customize the configuration.
```

## Paintable Weights

In order to provide more artistic control, some key parameters of the AdnSkin solver are exposed as paintable attributes in the deformer. The [AdonisFX Paint Tool](tools.md#adonisfx-paint-tool) must be used to paint those parameters to ensure that the values satisfy the solver requirements.

> - **Hard Constraints**: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant transformation, local to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Hard constraint maps will force the geometry points to keep the original position. A low value of hard constraints may be desired to allow the skin to create wrinkles, sliding, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Hard Constraints**: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant transformation, local to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Hard constraint maps will force the geometry points to keep the original position. A low value of hard constraints may be desired to allow the skin to create wrinkles and sliding effect.
```

Author: Done!

>     - *Tip*: Flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2. Give a value of 1.0 to the edges of the skin to guarantee that’s perfectly attached to the target geometry

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - *Tip*: Flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2. Give a value of 1.0 to the edges of the skin to guarantee that’s perfectly attached to the target geometry.
```

Author: Done!

>     - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that’s something you are looking for!).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth and Flood combination to make sure the simulation does not find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that is something you are looking for!).
```

Author: Done!

- **Soft Constraints**: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Painting these constraint weights would allow the deformer to create a wrinkle effect when combined with hard and slide weights.

    - *Tip*: Flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2.

    - *Tip*: It may be desirable to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as the results of the skin simulation are seen.

> - **Slide Constraints**: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the reference mesh sliding along the reference surface. In the example of a biped or quadruped, it is recommended to set a value of 1.0 on the scapulas, shoulders, elbows and knees and an overall value of 0 on the rest of the body.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Slide Constraints**: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the reference mesh sliding along the reference surface. In the example of a biped or quadruped creature, it is recommended to set a value of 1.0 on the scapulas, shoulders, elbows and knees and an overall value of 0 on the rest of the body.
```

Author: Done!

>     - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd looking wrinkles (unless that’s something you are looking for!).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth and Flood combination to make sure the simulation does not find hard edges as this could create odd looking wrinkles (unless that is something you are looking for!).
```

- **Compression Resistance**: Force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is smaller than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction. At value 1 the points in the geometry will try to stay as close as possible to their original position.

    - *Tip*: It may be desirable to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as the results of the skin simulation are seen.
    
    - *Tip*: Reducing the value of the weight in some areas will contribute to getting rid of unwanted wrinkles or possible artifacts in the skin.

- **Stretching Resistance**: Force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is greater than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction.

    - *Tip*: It may be desirable to leave this map weight to 1 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on as the results of the skin simulation are seen.

>     - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that’s something you are looking for!).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the Smooth and Flood combination to make sure the simulation does not find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that is something you are looking for!).
```

Author: Done!

> - **Global Damping**: Set global damping per vertex in the simulated mesh. The greater the value per vertex the more it will attempt to retain its previous position.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Global Damping**: Set global damping per vertex in the simulated mesh. The greater the value per vertex is the more it will attempt to retain its previous position.
```

Author: Done!

- **Max Sliding Multiplier**: Determines the size of the sliding area per vertex. It corresponds to the maximum distance to the closest point on the reference mesh computed on initialization. Greater values will allow for greater sliding but will have a greater computational cost.
    

>     - *Tip*: For areas where sliding isn't required paint to 0. Use values closer to 1 in areas where more sliding freedom is desired.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - *Tip*: For areas where sliding is not required paint to 0. Use values closer to 1 in areas where more sliding freedom is desired.
```

Author: Done!

- **Mass**: Set individual mass values per vertex in the simulated mesh.

<figure>

>   <img src="images/skin_paint_example.png" caption="AdonisFX Paint Tool"> 

Reviewer 3: We want to expose an example of all paintable maps, even if they are all to one. Consider to expose a grid of images. We have 8 maps, maybe 4x4. Also, try to take the screenshots without selecting the geometry. The wireframe does not help.

Author: Regarding the wireframe, I believe currently it is not possible to remove the wireframe while having the paint context enabled

  <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Example of painted weights on the skin of a bear character. From left to right: Hard Constraints, Slide Constraints and Soft Constraints.</figcaption>
</figure>

> [!NOTE]
> - *Hard*, *Soft* and *Slide* values are normalized for each vertex. Make sure to paint the values that you want to give priority to at the end in order to avoid the internal normalization override them in further strokes.

# Attributes

[^1]: Soft range: higher values can be used.

#### Solver Attributes
 - **Enable** (Boolean, True): Flag to enable or disable the deformer computation.
 - **Iterations** (Integer, 3): Number of iterations that the solver will execute per simulation step. Greater values mean greater computational cost.

>      - Has a range of \[1, 10\] [^1]

Reviewer 3: Let's get rid of footnotes to avoid forcing the reader to slide down and up.

Author: Alright! But should I replace it with something like this?

```suggestion
     - Has a soft range of \[1, 10\]
```

Reviewer 3: `- Has a range of \[1, 10\]. Upper limit is soft, higher values can be used`

Author: Applied!

 - **Stiffness Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Multiplier factor to scale up or down the material stiffness.
     - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\]

#### Time Attributes
 - **Preroll Start Time** (Time, *Current frame*): Sets the frame at which the preroll begins. The preroll ends at *Start Time*.
 - **Start Time** (Time, *Current frame*): Determines the frame at which the simulation starts.
 - **Current Time** (Time, *Current frame*): Current playback frame.

#### Scale Attributes
 - **Time Scale** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the simulation time step.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Space Scale** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the masses and/or the forces.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Space Scale Mode** (Enumerator, "Masses + Forces"): Determines if the spatial scaling affects the masses, the forces, or both. The available options are:
    - Masses: The space scale only affects masses.
    - Forces: The space scale only affects forces.
    - Masses + Forces: The space scale only affects masses and forces.

#### Gravity

>  - **Gravity** (Float, 1.0): Sets the magnitude of the gravity acceleration.

Reviewer 3: Are we sure? I think the default value is 0.0

Author: It is! I have corrected it

>  - **Gravity Direction** (Float3, {0.0. -1.0, 0.0} ): Sets the direction of the gravity acceleration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - **Gravity Direction** (Float3, {0.0. -1.0, 0.0}): Sets the direction of the gravity acceleration.
```

Author: Done!

>     - Vectors introduced don't need to be normalized, but they will get normalized internally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Vectors introduced do not need to be normalized, but they will get normalized internally.
```

Author: Done!

    - Has a range of \[0.0, 1.0\] [^1]
 - **Rest Length Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the edge lengths at rest.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Max Sliding Distance** (Float, 0.5): Determines the size of the sliding area. It corresponds to the maximum distance to the closest point on the reference mesh computed on initialization.
    - The higher this value is, the higher quality and the lower performance.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\] [^1]
 - **Compression Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the compression resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Stretching Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the stretching resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Attenuation Velocity Factor** (Float, 1.0): Sets the weight of the attenuation applied to the whole simulation driven by the Attenuation Matrix.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\] [^1]
 - **Sliding Constraints Mode** (Enumerator, "Fast"): Defines the mode of execution for the sliding constraints.
    - *Quality* is more accurate, recommended for final results.

>     - *Fast* provides higher performance, recommended for preview.

Reviewer 3: Let me write this comment here. We have to add also the connectable attributes even if they are not exposed in the Attribute Editor. In this deformer, they are "Attenuation Matrix" and "reference mesh"

Reviewer 3: I can't see this change applied.

Author: Added as "additional attributes"!

Reviewer 3: "Connectable attributes". The mesh is not additional, it is required actually. "Connectable" is not ideal either to be honest, but it's the best option I found

## Attribute Editor Template

<figure markdown>
  ![skin editor first part](images/attribute_editor_part_one_skin.png) 

>   <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: AdnSkin Attribute Editor</figcaption>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: AdnSkin Attribute Editor.</figcaption>
```

Author: Done!

</figure>

<figure markdown>
  ![skin editor second part](images/attribute_editor_part_two_skin.png)

>   <figcaption><b>Figure 3</b>: AdnSkin Attribute Editor (Advanced Settings)</figcaption>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <figcaption><b>Figure 3</b>: AdnSkin Attribute Editor (Advanced Settings).</figcaption>
```

Author: Done!

</figure>

> ## Debugger

Reviewer 3: Move the Debugger at the end (Make sure that we have Attributes, then Attribute Editor Template, then Debugger)

Reviewer 3: I mean:
## Attributes
### Solver attributes
etc
### Debugger attributes
bla bla

## Debugger
bla bla
### Debug features

Author: I see! It has been applied.

> In order to better visualize deformer constraints and attributes in the Maya viewport there is the option to enable the debugger, found in the dropdown menu labeled *Debug* in the attribute editor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to better visualize deformer constraints and attributes in the Maya viewport there is the option to enable the debugger, found in the dropdown menu labeled *Debug* in the Attribute Editor.
```

Reviewer 3: After looking at the rendered page, we have some not standarized the references to other attributes. Sometimes we use Italic, sometimes we use plain format. I would go with Italic

Author: Change applied to the whole document!

Reviewer 3: This is not applied

Author: Change applied now!

To enable the debugger the *Debug* checkbox must be marked. To select the specific feature you would like to visualize, choose it from the list provided in *Features*. 

### Debug features

The features that can be visualized with the debugger in the AdnSkin deformer are:

 - **Hard Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Hard Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.
 - **Soft Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Soft Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.

>  - **Slide Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Soft Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - **Slide Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Slide Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.
```

Author: Done!

Enabling the debugger and selecting one of these constraints will draw lines from the influenced vertices in the simulated mesh to their corresponding reference vertices. 

<figure markdown>

>   ![skin editor debug example](images/skin_debug.png)

Reviewer 3: I'm not a fan of this screenshot. I get the point but 3 very different perspectives with different scales looks weird. We have to improve this one, please

Author: I understand. Maybe we could add a screenshot with the simulated mesh removed where we see the debug lines go from the reference mesh outward? This way we could display the debugger for each feature with the same perspective every time. We could addd a caption giving some context and explaining that in this case the simulated mesh is hidden.

Reviewer 3: Try different options and send me screenshots via chat. We will choose the best one we can get

Reviewer 3: This is pending to receive a new screenshoot from Lorena.

  <figcaption><b>Figure 4</b>: Debugger enabled displaying hard constraints, slide constraints and soft constraints with different configurations. </figcaption>
</figure>

### Debugger attributes

> The following attributes can be modified to better customize the appereance of these lines:

Reviewer 3: This line would be remove because we will move this section to the Attributes. No need for an introduction

    - Has a range of \[0.0, 1.0\]. Upper limit is soft, higher values can be used.
 - **Inertia Damper** (Float, 0.0): Sets the linear damping applied to the dynamics of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 1.0\].
 - **Rest Length Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the edge lengths at rest.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\]. Upper limit is soft, higher values can be used.
 - **Max Sliding Distance** (Float, 0.5): Determines the size of the sliding area. It corresponds to the maximum distance to the closest point on the reference mesh computed on initialization.
    - The higher this value is, the higher quality and the lower performance.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\]. Upper limit is soft, higher values can be used.
 - **Compression Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the compression resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\]. Upper limit is soft, higher values can be used.
 - **Stretching Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the stretching resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\]. Upper limit is soft, higher values can be used.

>  - **Attenuation Velocity Factor** (Float, 1.0): Sets the weight of the attenuation applied to the whole simulation driven by the Attenuation Matrix.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - **Attenuation Velocity Factor** (Float, 1.0): Sets the weight of the attenuation applied to the whole simulation driven by the *Attenuation Matrix*.
```

    - Has a range of \[0.0, 1.0\].
 - **Sliding Constraints Mode** (Enumerator, "Fast"): Defines the mode of execution for the sliding constraints.
    - *Quality* is more accurate, recommended for final results.
    - *Fast* provides higher performance, recommended for preview.

> ### Debugger attributes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Debug attributes
```

Author: Done!

 - **Debug** (Boolean, False): Enable or Disable the debug functionalities in the viewport for the AdnSkin deformer.
 - **Feature** (Enumerator, "Hard Constraints"): A list of debuggable features for this deformer.
     - Hard Constraints: Draw *Hard Constraints* connections from the simulated mesh to the reference mesh.
     - Soft Constraints: Draw *Soft Constraints* connections from the simulated mesh to the reference mesh.
     - Slide Constraints: Draw *Slide Constraints* connections from the simulated mesh to the reference mesh.
 - **Width Scale** (Float, 3.0): Modifies the width of all lines.
 - **Color** (Color picker): Selects the line color from a color wheel. Its saturation can be modified using the slider.

> ### Additional attributes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Connectable attributes
```

Author: Done!

>  - **Attenuation Matrix** (Float4x4): Transformation matrix to drive the attenuation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - **Attenuation Matrix** (Matrix, Identity): Transformation matrix to drive the attenuation.
```

> # AdnSkin

Author: Maybe we could expand a bit the page title, something along the lines of "Introduction to AdnSkin" or "AdnSkin documentation".

> AdnSkin is a Maya deformer for fast, robust and easy-to-configure skin simulation for digital assets. Thanks to the combination of internal and external constraints, the deformer can produce dynamics that allow the skin mesh to realistically react to the deformations of the internal tissues (e.g. muscles, fascia) over time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
AdnSkin is a Maya deformer for fast, robust and easy-to-configure skin simulation for digital assets. Thanks to the combination of internal and external constraints, the deformer can produce dynamics that allow the skin mesh to realistically react to the deformations of internal tissues (e.g. muscles, fascia) over time.
```

Reviewer: Done.

> <!-- DEV NOTE: change paint tool references once tools.md has been merged-->
> 
> The influence these constraints have on the simulated mesh can be freely modified by painting them via the [AdonisFX Paint Tool](index.md) or by uniformingly regulating their influence via multipliers in the attribute editor. Besides the maps and multipliers there are many other parameters to regulate the skin's dynamics and behaviour to a wide array of options.

Reviewer 4: In my opinion this note should be handled in this PR. The merge update with `wip_v1.0.0` should have included the `tools.md` file.

I suggest to:
1. Update this branch with `wip_v1.0.0`.
2. Handle all references that might be missing.
3. Remove DEV NOTE found.
```suggestion
The influence these constraints have on the simulated mesh can be freely modified by painting them via the [AdonisFX Paint Tool](tools.md#adonisfx-paint-tool) or by uniformingly regulating their influence via multipliers in the attribute editor. Besides the maps and multipliers there are many other parameters to regulate the skin's dynamics and behaviour to a wide array of options.
```

Author: Merged, references fixed and DEV NOTE removed!

# How to Use

The AdnSkin deformer is of great simplicity so set up and apply to a mesh within a Maya scene. The way this deformer works, a reference mesh (usually animated) is set in the scene, over which the skin mesh (simulated mesh) is applied with the deformer.

## Requirements

To create an AdnSkin deformer within a Maya scene, the following inputs must be provided:

  - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R)</b>: Mesh to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).

>   - <b class="mesh_color"> Skin Mesh (S)</b>: Mesh to be simulated to which the AdnSkin deformer will be applied.

Reviewer 4: I think that we must remove "class" or "style" found since styling will come from the web.

>   - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R)</b>: Mesh to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).
>   - <b class="mesh_color"> Skin Mesh (S)</b>: Mesh to be simulated to which the AdnSkin deformer will be applied.

Reviewer 4: This is a suggestion.  Feel free to add it or not.

```suggestion
  - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R)</b>: Mesh to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).
  - <b class="mesh_color"> Skin Mesh (S)</b>: AdnSkin deformer will be applied to this mesh and simulate it.
```

Reviewer: Finally I made this change, pleas tell me if you agree:
```suggestion
  - <b class="mesh_color"> Reference Mesh (R)</b>: Mesh to drive the simulation skin (e.g. fascia or combined muscles).
  - <b class="mesh_color"> Skin Mesh (S)</b>: Mesh to apply the deformer onto.
```

Reviewer 4: I like it

## Create AdnSkin

The process to create an AdnSkin deformer is the following:

> 1. Select the reference mesh (if any), then the geometry:

Reviewer 4: Reference mesh should not be optional.
```suggestion
1. Select the reference mesh, then the geometry to simulate:
```

Reviewer: Done.

2. Press ![Skin button](images/adn_skin.png) in the AdonisFX shelf or *Skin* in the AdonisFX menu, under the *Create* section. If the shelf button is double-clicked or the option box in the menu is selected a window will be displayed where a custom name and initial attribute values can be set.
3. AdnSkin is ready to simulate with default settings. Check the [attributes page](#attributes) to customize the configuration.

## Paintable Weights

> In order to provide more artistic control, some key parameters of the AdnSkin solver are exposed as paintable attributes in the deformer. The [AdonisFX Paint Tool](index.md) must be used to paint those parameters to ensure that the values satisfy the solver requirements.

Reviewer 4: Remember to update the link.

Author: Updated!

- <b class="paintable maps">Hard Constraints</b>: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant transformation, local to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Hard constraint maps will force the geometry points to keep the original position. A low value of hard constraints may be desired to allow the skin to create wrinkles, sliding, etc.

    - *Tip*: Flood the geometry with a very low value 0.1 - 0.2. Give a value of 1.0 to the edges of the skin to guarantee that’s perfectly attached to the target geometry

    - *Tip*: Smooth the borders by using the smooth-Flood combination to make sure the simulation doesn’t find hard edges as this could create odd wrinkles (unless that’s something you are looking for!).

> - <b class="paintable maps">Soft Constraints</b>: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Painting these constraint weights would allow the deformer to create a wrinkle effect when combined with hard and slide weights. An intermediate value of 0.5 on the whole geometry is recommended.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- <b class="paintable maps">Soft Constraints</b>: Weight to modulate the correction applied to the vertices to keep them at a constant distance to the closest point on the reference mesh at initialization. Painting these constraint weights would allow the deformer to create a wrinkle effect when combined with hard and slide weights.
```

Reviewer: Removed.

    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Max Sliding Distance** (Float, 0.5): Determines the size of the sliding area. It corresponds to the maximum distance to the closest point on the reference mesh computed on initialization.
    - The higher this value is, the higher quality and the lower performance.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\] [^1]
 - **Compression Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the compression resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Stretching Multiplier** (Float, 1.0): Sets the scaling factor applied to the stretching resistance of every point.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 2.0\] [^1]
 - **Attenuation Velocity Factor** (Float, 1.0): Sets the weight of the attenuation applied to the whole simulation driven by the Attenuation Matrix.
    - Has a range of \[0.0, 10.0\] [^1]
 - **Sliding Constraints Mode** (Enumerator, "Fast"): Defines the mode of execution for the sliding constraints.
    - *Quality* is more accurate, recommended for final results.
    - *Fast* provides higher performance, recommended for preview.

> <!-- Removed additional attributes as they were basically paintable weights, previously explained  -->

Author: I believe this comment is no longer necessary.

Reviewer: Removed.

## Attribute Editor Template

<figure markdown>
  ![skin editor first part](images/attribute_editor_part_one_skin.png) 

>   <figcaption>Figure 2: AdnSkin Attribute Editor</figcaption>

Reviewer 4: May we at all the figcaption apply this change?
```suggestion
  <figcaption><b>Figure 2:</b> AdnSkin Attribute Editor</figcaption>
```

Author: One question regarding this, should we standardize the use of bold text to `<b>Text</b>` or to `**Text**`?

And one suggestion, I'd leave the semicolon out of the bold text:

```suggestion
  <figcaption><b>Figure 2<b>: AdnSkin Attribute Editor</figcaption>
```

Reviewer 4: I'm worried about how will work having an html statement `<figure>` and then use the markdown way of making text bold. But, yes, let's chose one and if we have problems later we can update it.

Author: Hmm, maybe for figures it's better to have that bold. However, I personally prefer the markdown method of marking bold text.

Reviewer: It seems that we can only add bold style inside the `<figcaption>` html label with `<b></b>`.

</figure>

<figure markdown>
  ![skin editor second part](images/attribute_editor_part_two_skin.png)
  <figcaption>Figure 3: AdnSkin Attribute Editor (Advanced Settings)</figcaption>
</figure>

## Debugger

> To better visualize deformer constraints and attributes in the Maya viewport there is the option to enable the debugger, found in the dropdown menu labeled *Debug* in the attribute editor.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to better visualize deformer constraints and attributes in the Maya viewport there is the option to enable the debugger, found in the dropdown menu labeled *Debug* in the attribute editor.
```

Just to change it a bit and not start to paragraphs with "to".

Reviewer: Done.

To enable the debugger the *Debug* checkbox must be marked. To select the specific feature you would like to visualize, choose it from the list provided in *Features*. 

### Debug features

The features that can be visualized with the debugger in the AdnSkin deformer are:

 - **Hard Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Hard Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.
 - **Soft Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Soft Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.
 - **Slide Constraints**: For each vertex, a line will be drawn from the simulated mesh to its corresponding reference point on those vertices where its Soft Constraints weight is greater than 0.0.

Enabling the debugger and selecting one of these constraints will draw lines from the influenced vertices in the simulated mesh to their corresponding reference vertices. 

<figure markdown>

>   ![skin editor debug menu](images/skin_debug.png)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  ![skin editor debug example](images/skin_debug.png)
```

Reviewer: Done.
